We can adapt James Reason’s Swiss cheese model of system accidents
to visualise how multiple conditions must align in order for an IT incident to transpire
A complex system, like an IT organisation
has multiple layers designed to prevent hazards from causing an incident
These defenses might include engineering safeguards
like code reviews and design practices
And quality safeguards
like user inspection and automated testing
And operational safeguards
like platform health and monitoring procedures
However, these defences are not perfect
and like a slice of Swiss cheese
each layer has inherent weaknesses or "holes"
These holes can allow hazards to pass through
A design flaw in the software might get caught in code review
A software bug might be missed in code review, but caught in testing
And occasionally, a combination of factors can line up
and allow a hazard to pass through all of the system's defences
By understanding how these layers can fail
organisations can work to identify and address the weaknesses in their systems